---
layout: post
title: "Manage the configuration of your servers with Ansible"
categories: instances
lang: en
author: NicolasLM
---

Ansible is a configuration management software that allows to manage your 
servers very easily. It focuses on keeping things simple, making it easy to 
begin with it.

What do you need to begin with Ansible?
---------------------------------------

In the Ansible world there are only two things: your computer where Ansible 
runs and servers to manage.

* The computer only needs the Ansible client installed.
* Servers only need an SSH access and Python installed. Basically all Unix 
servers match the requirements. RunAbove GNU/Linux instances are known to work 
out of the box with Ansible.

How does Ansible work?
----------------------

Ansible uses a standard SSH connection to manage the servers. The client on 
your computer initiates a connection to all your servers in parallel and uses 
Python modules to configure them.

### Hosts, playbooks, roles and tasks

Ansible encourages you to reuse the configuration you write by defining 
different elements, mainly: hosts, playbooks, roles and tasks.

Let's take a real life example that will make that clear. Imagine that you want 
to deploy a small cluster of web servers.

First you define a list of hosts that will be part of this cluster. This list 
is called an inventory file.

The next step is defining a role. Each role is a list of tasks and 
configuration files.

Imagine a role "HTTP server". It will contain the following tasks:

* Install the HTTP server Nginx
* Upload its configuration
* Start the service

Finally you write a playbook that connects your hosts with the role(s) you want 
to give them. In our example our hosts will have two roles, the common one and 
the HTTP server one. Now let's do that on RunAbove!

Using Ansible on RunAbove
-------------------------

The first thing you need to do is installing Ansible, then you will be able to 
clone a git repository containing the files mentioned in the previous 
paragraphs and run the playbook on real servers.

### Installing Ansible

On your local computer install Ansible. As it is just a Python software it can 
be installed like any other Python program with pip. As a good practice you 
should install it in a virtualenv.

Note, on a fresh Debian-like system you can install the requirements:

    apt-get install python-dev python-virtualenv python-pip

Assuming you are using an Unix OS with Python and virtualenv installed it is as 
easy as:

    mkdir ansible && cd ansible
    virtualenv venv
    source venv/bin/activate
    pip install ansible

Congratulations, you are ready to use Ansible.

### Clone the git repository

Clone the repository containing the web cluster example:

    git clone https://github.com/NicolasLM/ansible-runabove-example.git
    cd ansible-runabove-example

The repository has the following layout:

```
├── hosts
├── webserver.yml
└── roles
    ├── common
    │   ├── files
    │   │   └── ntp.conf
    │   ├── handlers
    │   │   └── main.yml
    │   └── tasks
    │       └── main.yml
    └── nginx
        ├── files
        │   └── testsite
        ├── handlers
        │   └── main.yml
        └── tasks
            └── main.yml
```

* `hosts` is your inventory of hosts
* `webserver.yml` is the playbook
* `roles` is a directory containing two roles: common and nginx

The common role is meant to be shared by all your host on RunAbove. It installs 
a ntp server and upgrades packages. The nginx role is the one installing the 
HTTP server.

### Launch some RunAbove instances

Launch a few RunAbove instances using Ubuntu 14.04. You can pick the flavor you 
want, even a Sandbox will be fine. It is important that you launch them with 
the key of your current computer running Ansible.

Once they are running copy their IP to the `host` file of the repository like 
that:

    [webservers]
    92.222.0.1
    92.222.0.2
    92.222.0.3

### Run the playbook

You can simply run the playbook:

    ansible-playbook -i hosts webserver.yml

The process can take up to a few minutes, once Ansible has setup all your hosts 
you can connect to `http://<IP of a instance>` and check that Nginx is 
responding.

Going further
-------------

You can check more examples in the [Github repository 
ansible-examples](https://github.com/ansible/ansible-examples).

Ansible has a lot of built-in modules and a great community. You can find them 
on IRC at #ansible.

